Add documentation on the OTel Spring Boot starter (#3377)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot.md

---
title: Spring Boot
linkTitle: Spring Boot
weight: 30
description: Spring instrumentation for OpenTelemetry Java

> javaInstrumentationVersion: 1.31.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter is another way to instrument your Spring Boot application. It is a [Spring Boot starter](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#using.build-systems.starters).

The OpenTelemetry starter is compatible with Spring Boot 2.0, Spring Boot 3.0 and Spring native.

## Getting Started

Add the dependency given below to enable the OpenTelemetry starter.

The OpenTelemetry starter uses OpenTelemetry [Spring Boot auto-configurations](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/using.html#using.auto-configuration).

You can look at [this](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/instrumentation/spring/spring-boot-autoconfigure/README.md#features) to know the supported libraries and features of the OpenTelemetry auto-configurations.

### Maven

Add the following dependencies to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
    <artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>

>     <version>{{% param javaInstrumentationVersion %}}</version>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <version>{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}</version>
```

  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

### Gradle

Add the following dependencies to your gradle.build file:

```groovy

> implementation("io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter:{{% param javaInstrumentationVersion %}}")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementation("io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter:{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}")
```

> ```

Reviewer: Use tabs for the alternatives "Maven" and "Gradle"

Author: @chalin I am not sure to follow. In my last commit I have aligned  this Gradle example with another one found on this repository.

Author: It should be fine my new commit

---
title: Spring Boot
linkTitle: Spring Boot
weight: 30
description: Spring instrumentation for OpenTelemetry Java
cSpell:ignore: springboot autoconfigure
---

> You can automatically instrument a
> [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) application using the
> [OpenTelemetry Java agent](..) that uses byte code instrumentation.
> 
> The OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter is another way to instrument your Spring
> Boot application. It is a
> [Spring Boot starter](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#using.build-systems.starters).
> 
> The OpenTelemetry starter is compatible with Spring Boot 2.0, Spring Boot 3.0
> and Spring native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [OpenTelemetry Java agent](..) with byte code instrumentation to
automatically instrument a [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
application; or you can also use the OpenTelemetry [Spring Boot starter] to
instrument your application.

[Spring Boot starter]:
  https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#using.build-systems.starters

The OpenTelemetry starter is compatible with Spring Boot 2.0 and 3.0, and Spring
native.
```

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration
```

Add the dependency given below to enable the OpenTelemetry starter.

> The OpenTelemetry starter uses OpenTelemetry
> [Spring Boot auto-configurations](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/using.html#using.auto-configuration).
> 
> You can look at
> [this](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/instrumentation/spring/spring-boot-autoconfigure/README.md#features)
> to know the supported libraries and features of the OpenTelemetry
> auto-configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry starter uses OpenTelemetry Spring Boot [auto-configuration].
For details concerning supported libraries and features of the OpenTelemetry
auto-configuration, see the configuration [README].

[auto-configuration]:
  https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/using.html#using.auto-configuration
[README]:
  https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/instrumentation/spring/spring-boot-autoconfigure/README.md#features
```

### Maven

Add the following dependencies to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependencies>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
		<artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
		<version>{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}</version>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>
```

### Gradle

Add the following dependencies to your gradle.build file:

```groovy
dependencies {
	implementation('io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter:{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}')
}

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
{{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}

```xml
<dependencies>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
		<artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
		<version>{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}</version>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>
```

{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="Gradle (`gradle.build`)" lang=Gradle %}}

```groovy
dependencies {
	implementation('io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter:{{% param vers.instrumentation %}}')
}
```

{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane>}}
~~~
